# Q-optics

**Q-optics** computes optical response functions associated with **spatial dispersion** (finite wavevector **q**), by evaluating the **first-order expansion in q** of the dielectric tensor $\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{ij}(\omega,\mathbf{q})$. Currently, the natural optical activity (NOA) (**optical rotation** and **circular dichroism**) tensor is implemented. In this framework, NOA is obtained from the **antisymmetric** part of the dielectric tensor. The **symmetric** part ($\mathcal{T}$-odd) contains additional spatial-dispersion phenomena such as **gyrotropic birefringence** and **nonreciprocal directional dichroism**, which can be enabled with minor extensions to the current implementation.

## Notes

For the current implementation, the only inputs to calculate NOA are single particle energy $E_{n\mathbf{k}}$ and velocity matrix elements $V_{nm\mathbf{k}}$, as well as exciton envelope $A_{cv\mathbf{k}}^\lambda$ and energy $\Omega_\lambda$ if excitonic effects are to be included. We use those files generated by VASP at the moment, although interfacing with other codes is straightforward (we have an old interface with QE/Yambo, reach out if you need it.).  
For IPA calculations, we have a Pytorch version (torch branch) which can significantly improve the efficiency thanks to multithreading or GPU accelaration, whereas for BSE calculations, the mpi version in the main branch is already sufficiently efficient.   
**The code has not been thoroughly tested. Use at your own risk!**

## Citation

Please consider citing "X. Wang and Y. Yan, Optical activity of solids from first principles, Phys. Rev. B 107, 045201" for IPA implementation and "X. Wang and Y. Yan, Ab initio GW-BSE theory of optical activity in \alpha-quartz, submitted" for BSE implementation.

## Dependencies

- `numpy`
- `spglib` (symmetrization)
- `phonopy` (reading `POSCAR`)  
  Followings are needed for MPI parallelization of BSE calculations.
- `mpi4py`
- `PyScalapack`

